Welcome back.
So I'm in a new file this time to talk about doing bulk inserts or multiple inserts together.
So we're still working with the same database same table friends and I have a new list of tuples each
one is a friend.
Well not really but some person first last name and then how close were from there.
And of course Rosa Parks is my closest friend.
I felt like that would be very unfair if I made heard you know I was better friends with Explorers or
astronauts.
I just want to look like a bad person.
But you know I kind of am anyway.
I also don't have friends.
I must say I want to insert all of them as individual rows.
I have two main ways of doing it.
I can iterate over this do something like for a person and people insert that one person or I have another
option.
This is pseudo code by the way.
I have another option of doing a special See Dot and instead of execute there's something called execute
many.
And I can do that and it will actually insert all of them.
So I'm going to start with this version and see that execute many.
Oh and this is supposed to be lowercase M..
Execute many.
And the way it works is we pass in our query and then we pass in our data afterwards so let's say our
data is people.
This list of tuples and then our query is going to be inserted into friends values and then we just
do three question marks that is placeholder question marks and they will be automatically filled in
for each item for each tuple in people.
So it will be first name last name and then closeness unless I specified a different order here.
But since our data is already in this order that makes sense.
OK so let's see if it works execute many make sure it armony typos.
Let's try running it and then open up the database.
So that is equal like three star start from friends.
Awesome.
So that whole new batch of them is in there whether we had you know five or however many I had here
or a hundred or a thousand.
This is one way of doing it inserting them all together.
But if we wanted to do something else along with each one maybe on and threw them into one table and
insert to another table or insert into one table and I don't know print it out or just do something
else along with it.
This doesn't let me do that so I could iterate over them once and do for person and people do something
like well we can do the insert first see Dot execute and the query is going to be exactly the same.
Insert into friends values question mark question mark question mark and then afterwards I'm going to
say person.
So this is going to loop through five times and do 5 separate inserts.
Then I can also do something like print.
I don't know inserting inserting now.
This is silly.
But imagine if we're doing something else like a second insert statement here.
Now let's test this one out and make sure this works as well and we'll use the exact same data which
means that we will have Ok 5.
Inserting now.
And we also have duplicated data inside of there which is fine.
Awesome.
So that works.
So it's one to show you both ways of doing that because often if you just have a bunch of data and all
you want to do is insert I would do it this way but if you have a bunch of data and you need to either
insert it in multiple places or you want to insert and then do math with part of it as you're inserting
or somehow collects pieces of the data like take the average of these if you want to do that sort of
thing than you would want to do it in a loop probably so you only iterate once.
Especially if you have a ton of data.
This isn't very much but you know we could do something like average equals zero.
And then just say average plus equals what is it.
Person 2.
And then at the end we could just do like print average and divide by the length of people.
This is stupid but this just adds them all together.
How close we are as friends and then divides it by five.
The number of friends there.
But this is something I could do alongside it that I couldn't do here.
But it's really a minor example.
Let's just check it out.
The 6.00 is the average relatively low.
Now I should have a ton of the same friends in there and I do.
OK.
So two different ways of inserting.
Next we're going to talk about selecting and alongside that I'm going to talk about a sequel injection
and how to avoid that which kind of talked about how to avoid it.
But I want to show you what happens if you didn't avoid it.